---
layout: post
title:  "Day 31"
date:   2022-08-24
categories: daily
---
So I've been waking up early in the morning these past few days.

It's annoying. I wake up at five or six am and don't really get back to sleep. I toss and turn, my back is at me (because staying in once position is bad for me), and I kind of just drift in and out of very light sleep.

Eventually I get annoyed and just get up. I'm awake anyway and will feel better if I get some movement in.

Generally I think I can perform ok with six hours of sleep. That's enough to get me through the day, work, workout etc... 

Oh and there is no coffee involved. I have had one cup of coffee in my entire life and didn't like it so... I'm not going to try hard to pick up new vices.

Deadlifts today, felt good. Hit 4 reps with 120kg. I've deadlifted once in my life (maybe 4 years ago) and hit 120kg for one. The four reps felt pretty easy, maybe seven out of ten in terms of effort. Really impressed with the foundational strength you can build with kettlebell. 

Don't think I'm too far off my double bodyweight goal. Though the coach said it might be good to slow down for a bit, rather than chasing the weight. I totally agree. A setback would suck now - and I'm used to training this way, since it's how I've had to work with kettlebells (big jumps in weight means more time spent at each individual weight).

Work is a bit stressful at the moment and it's disrupting my routine. I also have to travel to LA for three days in a couple of weeks. So it will be interesting to see the impact it has on my tracking.