---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3 - Origin Story; part 1"
date:   2022-08-14
categories: weekly
---
I though it might be worth doing a bit of an origin story. My journey from some initial pain and discomfort through to diagnosis.

I don't really remember what it's like to not feel some sort of pain or discomfort somewhere in my body anymore. But it wasn't like that from the start.

I'm also not really sure when I started to experience symptoms. For a long time I thought I just had a bad back, and that was that. Probably due to years of sitting at a computer, playing games, programming, slouching on the couch etc... I also had a job washing cars during my teen years, so I figured that might have contributed. That and the BMX I used to ride around in a hunched over position.

But there is one day that sticks out in my mind. I was around 19 years old.

## Intermittent Limping

I went to college in an Institute of Technology in Dublin (Tallaght, for anyone that knows Dublin). It was less than an hour from my house, on foot.

Most days I would just walk along the main road towards the building and if a bus came I might hop on. The buses were hard to time and I get annoyed very easily waiting around for things, so walking was not about exercise or anything like that. Just impatience.

One day as I was walking to college I saw a bus coming. It would reach the stop in less than a minute and I was more than a minutes' walk away. So I had to run.

Except I didn't really run, I hobbled. 

I felt a sharp and intense pain in my right hip. It was as if there was barbed wire wrapped around the inside of my hip. The socket of my ball and socket joint, lined with sharp spikes.

As I tried to run, my joint stabbed at me from the inside. I had to keep the leg straight and kind of swing around and in front of me as I moved, making an effort to avoid heavy contact with the ground.

I made the bus, out of breath and in pain. Actually, I was so out of breath I was embarrassed. I wasn't massively over weight or anything, it was years of smoking and not exercising that did it. That embarrassment would factor into later decisions to get fit.

Anyway, back to the pain. Once on the bus I saw a familiar face. Not a friend, but someone that had been in my brothers year in secondary school. I sat down beside him and we started talking.

It didn't take him long to ask about the limp. I hadn't even thought about the fact that a load of people on this bus had just observed me hobbling and limping towards them and that it must have looked by awkward and uncoordinated. My face would have been red with embarrassment at that thought, if it hadn't already been colored bright pink by my lack of fitness.

Anyway, I explained that I had a bad back and that my hip would get really sore sometimes, to the point where just standing on it was sore. 

And that was that. Just a bad back. I didn't go get checked out or anything of course. This was intermittent, so it came, it sucked, it disappeared and I forgot about it. 

This is my earliest memory of what people 'in the know' call a flare up.

A period of time where your symptoms get bad. Sometimes it last a few days, sometimes a morning. 

I don't think it was my first flare up, but it's my earliest memory of one.

Diagnosis was around 15 years away at this point.


