---
layout: post
title:  "Week 4 - Origin Story; part 2"
date:   2022-08-21
categories: weekly
---
Last week I talked about my first memory of a flare up. Of a crippling pain that I didn't really understand, but dismissed as 'I just have a bad back'.

## The college years

Throughout college I remember a few flare ups, but it never got bad enough to the point where I tried to figure out what was **really** going on.

At this point it's worth talking about lifestyle. I was drinking and smoking a decent amount over the four years I spent in college. We'd usually hit the pub or head to a session in someones house on Thursday, Friday and Saturday each week.

The rest of the time I was in college or sitting on my ass. I was not very active at all, outside of the walks to and from college. No sport, no exercise, nothing like that. I was either at a computer or sitting on a couch.

I also didn't eat very well. At this point in my life I had never really eaten vegetables or anything like that. My food was mostly beige.

Bread rolls with meat and cheese. Potatoes, bread, cheese, ham, chicken, steak were my staples. Washed down with coke and followed by chocolate or crisps (chips for you Americans) for dessert.

I was getting through college just fine, learning how to build software. But I wasn't exactly a fine physical specimen, I definitely wasn't fit or strong and I wasn't investing in my body.

I finished college in 2007 and started working right away. This is a decision I often regret. I should have taken a few weeks off. I didn't, and haven't had more than a couple of weeks straight off work since.

I joined IBM as a junior software engineer. 

Oh and around this time I learned to drive, as I'd have to drive to work. So my only real exercise, walking everywhere, went out the window at this point.

Physically I doing ok. Flare ups weren't all that common, but something was definitely wrong. 

I was getting stiff a lot. Sitting on a couch without much support for too long, for example, would trigger it. Which made sense - I had a bad back after all. 

At this point I was still a few years away from going to a physio and about 12 years away from a diagnosis...