---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1 wrap-up"
date:   2022-07-31
categories: weekly
---
Week 1 is done!

I didn't really do all that much different in week 1. I just wanted to start tracking data.

This is the first of these longer form posts that I hope to do once per week. The daily posts are just quick brain dumps.  This is where I'll write about the whole process in a little more detail.

I reckon it makes sense to divide these posts into three sections:

* Movement
* Food
* Misc

Food and movement are the two primary things I am tracking / adjusting, and misc can cover everything else.

## Movement
My morning routine was new though, and I feel like it's already making a significant difference to how I'm feeling throughout the day.

The routine looks like this:

* Hang from a bar (60s)
* Original strength routine
* Sun salutations
* Deep squat
* Push ups
* Shoudler dislocations
* Walk (at least 1km)

And it takes about 30 minutes. Here's a little more detail on each element:

### Hang from a bar
I hang from my pullup bar for around 60 seconds. This really unlocks and loosens my shoulders and upper back. 

I've included it mainly for a bit of spinal decompression first thing in the morning, but I think it's a good idea in general.

### Original strength routine
This is a routine I got from Dan John. You can see it in action [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BmGBpeYMGRQ). For my morning routine I just do the first minute of that video. I find it helps me to lossen up.

### Sun salutations
This is a quick bit of Yoga. I basically go from downward facing dog, to chaturanga, to upward facing dog, back to downard facing dog. And repeat.

This is a great one for stretching out my back.

### Deep squat
I like to just hang out in a deep squat. Opens the hits, works my back a little bit and just generally feels good.

### Push ups

10 push ups. Get some blood flowing.

### Shoudler dislocations
I take a resistance band and hold it with both hands, arm straight out in front. Then lift my arms up overhead and then back and down behind me. Good to get the shoulders moving.

### Walk
I just walk. 20 minutes. This gets me out into the sun (in the summer) first thing in the morning, which is something I've seen recommended by a number of people I respect, including Andrew Huberman (neurobiologist) and Rangan Chatterjee (Physician).
<br/>

---

<br/>
That's it for the morning routine. My workouts didn't change much this week. I'm waiting to hear back from B2B fitness in Dublin. Would like to do a barbell program for a while. Have kind of hit my limit with kettlebells for a while I think, don't want to get bored.

## Food
I also made some minor tweaks around diet. I've been really avoiding eating at night time. I have a really bad habit of consolidating all of my snacking into the 2-3 hours before I go to bed.

If I go to bed feeling even a little bloated I always feel worse the next day. So I've tried to follow a more strict 16-8 intermittent fasting pattern, which sees me starting the fast at around 9.

I started drinking protein shakes again too. Since I'll be reducing the amount of calories I'm eating, through cutting out as much sugar and processed food as possible, I want to make sure I'm still getting enough protein.

I use Vivo Life protein. It's plant based and fermented, which makes it a lot easier on my gut. I can't really do whey protein - makes me feel awful. Downside is that it is crazy expensive!

I've also started taking creatine. Interested to see how it affects my workouts (if at all).

## Misc

Nothing much to cover here. Just getting started! 

The one thing worth mentioning is that tracking this stuff in a spreadsheet has been really motivational for me. It definitely helps me to stay disciplined throughout the day. Knowing that my actions are being recorded and analysed, even if it's just me looking at it, adds some real accounability. Let's see how long that lasts.

Also, now that I have a weeks worth of data I can start writing some code to generate a whole bunch of lovely graphs with interesting information and spurious correlations!