---
layout: post
title:  "Week 5 - Origin Story; part 3"
date:   2022-08-28
categories: weekly
---
## I walked before I ran

I really have no idea why I started going for walks in the evening after work... I just did.

Post college, my lifestyle had obviously changed. I was at or commuting to/home work for ten hours out of every weekday. I'd sit around in the evenings, and was still spending the weekends in the pub.

I think I probably just felt like shit. Like I needed to get out of the house (still my parents house at this point) and get some air.

I also had a girlfriend at this point (my now soon to be wife), so was probably also feeling pretty self conscious about my body.

To be honest I always had been self conscious of my body. In my family I was the overweight one. I wasn't overweight by 2022 standards, things have changed a lot. But I had tiny little boy tits and a bit of a belly. 

My older brother used to make of fun me for it, which always sucked, but I remember something worse.

My younger brother, who was very young at the time, asked during lunch what 'boobs' are. It was all very innocent, as kids are. He was trying to figure out why women have these things but men don't. But after he'd asked his questions he pointed out that I looked like I did too.

That one was rough because kids speak the truth and still sticks in my mind over 20 years later.

Anyway - all of that probably has something to do with why I started going out for walks in the evening.

I'd listen to music and go do a few kilometres, but quickly came to find that it took a really long time to cover modest distances.

So I though to myself 'what if I run instead?' I know. A revolutionary idea. But actually, now that I think back - this was around 2007 and there were no where near as many people running around my little corner of Dublin as there are now. 

Smart phones were pretty new at this time - fitness culture wasn't a thing yet. Especially not in Ireland.

I didn't really know what I was doing. I just started running. 

That was a serious shock to the system. I'd been smoking for over five years at this point. Probably going through fewer than ten a day - but it definitely had a significant impact.

I'm not sure if lung capacity can be measured in negative numbers, but mine definitely felt like it was minus something. My lungs gave up far before my legs - though they weren't far behind either.

I'd never felt that sort of pain - that 'day after working some muscles you haven't worked in years' pain. I'd later learn that it is known as DOMS, or 'Delay Onset Muscle Soreness'.


## Injury Prone




## Time to see a doctor




## Time to see a rheumatologist



## Today
